Extend the build directive syntax with `cargo::` (#12201)
rust-lang/cargo: src/doc/src/reference/build-scripts.md

should not modify any files outside of that directory.

Build scripts communicate with Cargo by printing to stdout. Cargo will
interpret each line that starts with `cargo::` as an instruction that will
influence compilation of the package. All other lines are ignored.

> **Note:** The old invocation prefix `cargo:` (one colon only) is deprecated
> and won't get any new features. To migrate, use two-colons prefix `cargo::`,

> > which was added in Rust 1.75. If you were using `cargo:KEY=VALUE` for

Reviewer: I believe this needs to be the same version as this PR, correct?

```suggestion
> which was added in Rust 1.76. If you were using `cargo:KEY=VALUE` for
```

Author: Updated. Thanks!

> arbitrary links manifest key-value pairs, it is encouraged to switch to
> `cargo::metadata=KEY=VALUE`. Stick to `cargo:` only if the support of Rust

> > version older than 1.72 is required.

Reviewer 2: The 1.72 version number is off, right?

Author: I've updated it to `1.75.0`.

should not modify any files outside of that directory.

Build scripts communicate with Cargo by printing to stdout. Cargo will
interpret each line that starts with `cargo::` as an instruction that will
influence compilation of the package. All other lines are ignored.

> After Cargo v1.72.0, you can use the following syntaxes for setting Cargo keys:
> 
> * `cargo::KEY=VALUE` for setting reserved keys.
> * `cargo::metadata=KEY=VALUE` for setting unreserved keys as metadata.
> 
> > Note: The old invocation prefix `cargo:` (one colon only) is deprecated and planned to be removed.
> > To migrate, use two-colons prefix cargo:: instead.
> > If you were using cargo:KEY=VALUE for arbitrary links manifest key-value pair, use cargo::metadata=KEY=VALUE.
> >

Reviewer 3: What is reserved keys? What do you mean by “as metadata”? There is no single word mentioning “reserved keys” in the current doc. And that we might not want users to spend time learning that kinda of an implementation detail. 

I think the whole paragraph can compile down into this (very opinioned tho).

```suggestion
> **Note:** The old invocation prefix `cargo:` (one colon only) is deprecated
> and won't get any new features. To migrate, use two-colons prefix `cargo::`,
> which was added in Rust 1.72. If you were using `cargo:KEY=VALUE` for
> arbitrary links manifest key-value pairs, it is encouraged to switch to
> `cargo::metadata=KEY=VALUE`. Stick to `cargo:` only if the support of Rust
> version older than 1.72 is required.

```

Mind that

* We usually just say `Rust 1.2.3` instead of `Cargo 1.2.3`, although they are pretty much the same at this time.
* It looks better when there is a newline between this paragraph and the next "The order of `cargo::`", since they discuss different topics.

<img width="300" alt="image" src="https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/assets/14314532/52cc392a-945f-4c75-b26d-49abc8f54386">

Author: Thanks for your great suggestions! Updated!

should not modify any files outside of that directory.

Build scripts communicate with Cargo by printing to stdout. Cargo will
interpret each line that starts with `cargo::` as an instruction that will
influence compilation of the package. All other lines are ignored.

> After the merge of [#12201], various instruction formats are now available, including:

Author: I am not sure does this doc clear enough or not. Do you have any suggestions about how to explain it to users?

Reviewer 3: Personally I think we don't need to mention the old syntax that much, given it is deprecated (yep it IS not WILL be deprecated). Probably we can just add a note like

> **Note:** The old invocation prefix `cargo:` (one colon only) is deprecated and planned to be removed. To migrate, use two-colons prefix `cargo::` instead. If you were using `cargo:KEY=VALUE` for arbitrary `links` manifest key-value pair, use `cargo::metadata=KEY=VALUE`.

And maybe, I said maybe, we can remove it in Edition 2024, forcing the transition.

Reviewer 2: > And maybe, I said maybe, we can stop supporting it for package in Edition 2024, forcing the transition.

Unfortunately, a package may delegate to a dependency from a prior edition to print output.

We could recursively check all `build-dependencies` editions?

Reviewer 2: We should probably mention in the comment what Rust version is needed for the new syntax to help people straddling this with their MSRV

Author: Updated.

  flags to a linker for the binary `BIN`.
* [`cargo::rustc-link-arg-bins=FLAG`](#rustc-link-arg-bins) --- Passes custom
  flags to a linker for binaries.
* [`cargo::rustc-link-arg-tests=FLAG`](#rustc-link-arg-tests) --- Passes custom
  flags to a linker for tests.
* [`cargo::rustc-link-arg-examples=FLAG`](#rustc-link-arg-examples) --- Passes custom
  flags to a linker for examples.
* [`cargo::rustc-link-arg-benches=FLAG`](#rustc-link-arg-benches) --- Passes custom
  flags to a linker for benchmarks.
* [`cargo::rustc-link-lib=LIB`](#rustc-link-lib) --- Adds a library to
  link.
* [`cargo::rustc-link-search=[KIND=]PATH`](#rustc-link-search) --- Adds to the
  library search path.
* [`cargo::rustc-flags=FLAGS`](#rustc-flags) --- Passes certain flags to the
  compiler.
* [`cargo::rustc-cfg=KEY[="VALUE"]`](#rustc-cfg) --- Enables compile-time `cfg`
  settings.
* [`cargo::rustc-env=VAR=VALUE`](#rustc-env) --- Sets an environment variable.
* [`cargo::rustc-cdylib-link-arg=FLAG`](#rustc-cdylib-link-arg) --- Passes custom
  flags to a linker for cdylib crates.
* [`cargo::warning=MESSAGE`](#cargo-warning) --- Displays a warning on the
  terminal.

> * [`cargo::KEY=VALUE`](#the-links-manifest-key) --- Metadata, used by `links`

Reviewer 2: I think something we lost track of in our discussions is changing away from `cargo:KEY=VALUE` because that is what got us into this mess in the first place (we can't add new keys without possibly breaking compatibility).

From [my comment](https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/issues/11461#issuecomment-1339822618)

> Ideally, cargo:KEY=VALUE would be changed to cargo:metadata=KEY=VALUE (name to be bikesheded) and we can extend as needed.

So `cargo:KEY=VALUE` needs to still be supported not with `::` syntax but instead we support `cargo::metadata=KEY=VALUE`

Reviewer 2: Feel free to make the change with the proposed name (or if you find a better one, that) and I'll drive us getting to consensus on *some* name and get back to you.

Reviewer 2: `cargo:key=value` is the general syntax.  It had a catch all case where if `key` was not known, it would fallback to treating it as a metadata for `link`.  This `links` metadata catch-all was generally written in the docs as `cargo:KEY=VALUE` (notice the case).  My intention was to communicate that the `links` metadata case was to be put under the `metadata` key.

So for the old syntax we'd have:
- `cargo:rustc-flags=VALUE`
- `cargo:rustc-link-lib=VALUE`
- `cargo:KEY=VALUE`

And for the new syntax version we'd have:
- `cargo::rustc-flags=VALUE`
- `cargo::rustc-link-lib=VALUE`
- `cargo::metadata=KEY=VALUE`

This will allow us to add new directives without breaking compatibility because we would not be shadowing a catch-all case.

Author: Got it. Thanks for your explanation.
